pasta. It can mean different things to different people and mine isn't always so traditional. It is what it is. This is my Bolognese. Love you, Benchemzer. So a true traditional Italian regu is a thing of joy. But I think for most families, Bolognese is a chance to kind of like get more vegetables into your kids' diet without them knowing. So my family Bolognese has a few little tricks up its sleeve but actually contributes to a really beautiful texture as well. Let me show you how I make it. Okay, we're ready. Okay. Bolognese is just one of those I think. Can we have quiet up there please? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Bolognese is just one of those I think. Can we have quiet up there please? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. They wouldn't necessarily eat on their own, including egg plant. Oh my goodness. Like I just don't know what else you can say. Mom, where are you? Whereabouts are you? Are you in here? No, she's not in here. Where is she? Why is she making so much noise? Hey mum, I feel me. So what are you doing about? I can hear you down there. That's all getting you in trouble mum. He's all about the clean audio. I'm a mess. Sit down. Okay. I'm going to make you some bolognese now. Bolognese for me is like a luxuriously comforting everyday food. I actually really love it and my kids adore it. Which is great news to me because I actually put a few little secret things in there. They wouldn't necessarily eat on its own. And that includes egg plant. I mean, I don't know what kid eats egg plant but mine do because it's in their bolognese. So the trick here is that you do cut it fairly small. It's used to be a little patient with the chopping. But the other thing that the eggplant does is actually lend a beautiful kind of like silkeness and body to the bolognese sauce. So not only does it add veg, it actually adds a little hint of luxury as well. I think it's pretty cool. And the other thing is because this eggplant does tend to thicken up and give you that kind of gelatinous quality to the sauce. It means that you don't have to cook it for as long either. I do know my friend Sylvia who makes the most beautiful traditional Italian bolognese but hers is simmered for I think a good two or three hours. Which is wonderful if you've got the time. But this is great because it's got an hour simmer time. So thank you, egg plant. Did you know Dax that there's like a bolognese decree in bologna? Is it bologna? It must be bologna because it's bolognese, right? But there's like a list of what's allowed and what's not. And it's a point that I love to make. It's actually a statement that I make with my cooking all the time. And that is that cuisines evolve and change and even cuisines that you thought were so sort of strict in their rules, you know, borrowed from other cultures. So for example, the Italians didn't get their tomatoes to like the 14th or 15th century and they came from South America. And before that, who knows what they were using? I wouldn't know. You're a question. You're a question. Like, Pesto. Pesto, maybe they were making pesto. You're a question. Can you educate us please? No. I love good traditional Italian things. I just, you know, for me, I do love to add additional ingredients where they make sense. For example, the eggplant, the soy sauce, I'm going to add later on, the star anise. But everything has its purpose. Pretty sure that's not even a decree. I'm pretty sure there's no star anise in the decree. You're right. It is what it is. This is my bologna's. My kids love it. So everyone in Italy can stick it. Love you, Vintenzo. I'm going to have you. Now olive oil. And this is my cooking olive oil. So I do keep on hand two different types of olive oil, typically. Sometimes more of this flavor than, you know, all sorts of things. But anyway, typically too, I make sure I have just a plain olive oil, which has a higher smoke point than extra virgin olive oil. Extra virgin olive oil has a beautiful flavor, but has a lower smoke point. And you lose a lot of that beautiful flavor when you cook with it. So I will finish my bologna's with the extra virgin, and I will cook with just the regular olive oil. So aromatics are first here. Onion and garlic. I want to keep that temperature medium, so I'm not burning either of those things. And carrot here as well. And then I like to season as I cook, particularly if I'm doing something like onions, because I do think the salt tends to bring out the sweetness of the onions, and also tends to draw out moisture, so that helps to cook them down as well. Now I can add in my eggplant. And this does look like quite a lot. But I do like to jam in as much eggplant as I can, but it will wilt down and soften up and becomes part of the sauce. So don't worry, just trust my friends. After five minutes, you can see that eggplant has softened down quite a bit in there. So now I can add in my beef and my pork. I like to do a combination of both, because I do think that beef a lot of the time from the supermarket doesn't have quite enough fat for me. And I love that fatty texture of a really good pork mince. So I go in with the beef and the pork. I do think the pork adds a nice flavor as well. And you'll notice that this beef is not going to get that much of a sear here. And I'm okay with that, because I kind of want the beef and the eggplant, everything to break down into a really lovely, beautiful softness. And I'm going to get the flavor, because it's going to simmer. I do have like a quick and dirty kind of 15 minute bolognese, where I really hard sear the mince meat. And that's really to give you some of that flavor that you miss out on if you don't have like an hour long simmer. So you can check out the quick and dirty one, if you like. Someone can pop like a little thing there that you can click on. Or you can give this one a go, which takes a little bit longer. One more meat's browning here. Let me talk to you a little bit about equipment. Now I always do my bolognese in a pan that is wide and deep, because what you get is a lot of surface area to brown your meat. But you also get a lot of room, like wide, wide pan allows a lot more room for the liquids to evaporate and thicken up and get nice and rich. So that's why I love using a pan of this size and shape. My meat's evenly broken up now. It is starting to get some color. I'm going to add in my tomato paste. I like to mix that through before I go any further. Now for the tomato component, I often make do with what I have at home. And so if I just have 10 tomatoes, I'll use those. If I happen to have some passata around, I'll use that. If I have fresh tomatoes, it needs to be up in a crisper. I'll use those. But today I'm going to go with the tint and some of this passata as well. Now I do like to use up the remnants of the tomato and the can by rinsing it with some water. Just like a quarter of a can in each. At this point you want to turn the heat down. There's nothing worse than having tomato sauce splash all over your top or your bench top. Now we're going to go in with the flavorings. And I guess this is where we get quite untraditional. I am going to add soy sauce because soy sauce to me adds not just saltiness, but also a beautiful savory, remind us as well. So you're kind of getting a double whammy with the soy sauce, salt and flavor. And then I have here bay leaves, so quite standard. And then I also have star anise. And I find that star anise is such a beautiful spice to add when you've got something meaty. It gives the meat an added fragrance that's anise, you can't quite tell what it is, but it's there and it's beautiful. So I always like to add those in. Just take them out for the kids to eat it. This is nothing worse than topping on a whole piece of star anise. And then I'm just going to put in just a few sprigs of time here. At this point we can just turn the heat down. Just so you see a little bit of bubble happening here, but it's very gentle. And then put the lid on. Just let that cook away for an hour. So you know that beautiful smell when you've had bolognese simmering on the stove top for an hour? Well that's the smell that I've got going on right now. Let's have a look. Oh yeah, look at that. The color, look how thick and unctuous it looks. I mean that looks like it's been simmered for hours, but that eggplant has just broken down so quickly and made everything so thick and lush. Loving it. Okay, so I find a little bit of extra richness here. I'm going to add some cream in optional if you'd like to keep it dairy free. That's cool too. And then that just needs about five minutes or so for that cream and the bolognese to make friends in there. And the cream just adds a beautiful richness to the whole sauce. Yum. So while that's doing its thing, let's get our pasta. And this was the curly pasta we found at the market. Kids are going to love this one. Ah, the kids are going to be so happy with this pasta. Okay, so even though I am making this for the kids, I still want to make it nice. I mean, like, let's do it properly. So I like to get it back into my warm pot once it's been drained. And then some of my bolognese sauce goes on top. The heat goes on under my pasta pot as well. Now some of that pasta cooking liquid that needs to go in there as well. And basically like the pasta cooking liquid is kind of a bit starchy. It's had some of that starch ooze out from the pasta as it's cooked. And then when you put it in with your sauce and the pasta, mix it around. It emulsifies and sort of gets that pasta sauce really clinging to the pasta itself. So that's why it's always a recommended thing to do. Now I also like to add in olive oil, a little bit of cheese here as well. And a little bit more water. Almost like you're adding, I think you're adding too much. But as you mix and swirl that pasta around, it's going to thicken up beautifully. That's really good. See how all of that pasta sauce and that meat sauce is really shiny and like sticking to the pasta? That's what we've done here. That's the magic that's happened in the pot. It's my good finishing olive oil. Honestly, my little chile is so spoiled with the beautiful olive oil that she gets if she doesn't get olive oil in her pasta. She's like, Mom, where's my olive oil? Okay, so not your traditional bolognese, but it's my family's favorite. So it's good for me. It's not too good to have cheese. This cheesy pasta bag is typically what follows my family bolognese dinner. So I will usually have leftovers because I do make quite a lot, but I don't have enough to make a full on lasagna. So what I do is use this roll-up technique to make my leftovers go further. Plus, it just looks really beautiful. Let's do this. First of all, I'm going to make the cheese cheese sauce. Now, I don't want to take credit where it's undue because I have borrowed this recipe from America's Test Kitchen. Now, if you haven't checked out their stuff, I love it. They're very technical and often have lots of really great hacks and cheats. This is a cottage cheese. I have some parmesan cheese as well. Some cream. In Australia, we call this thickened cream. Elsewhere, it's called pure cream. Or I believe half and half. There are many names for cream, which is very confusing. Someone should get a standardization thing going on. Cornflour is all the cornflour is a trick here because it's kind of what helps to stabilize and keep things nice and thick as the cheese sauce cooks in the lasagna. And then one more thing here for flavour, and that is my nutmeg. So nutmeg is such a beautiful spice. I think it's underserved when you buy it pre-graded. When you buy it in the little nut, I don't know, I guess that's the nut. And you grate it fresh. The flavour is unparallel. It's so beautiful and so arresting. I love the flavour of it. It's very comforting. I'm just going to mix all that together. A little pinch of salt here. So of course, this is in place of making and cooking a bischamel. I'm just going to add a little bit of thyme here, some fresh thyme. So you can see the texture of this sauce is quite thick and chunky, which is what I want. Because when we do the roll-ups, we want this to be lovely and spreadable rather than kind of like pourable. I'm also going to put this in the fridge to firm up a little bit, and then we're going to make lasagna sheets. So I have my boiling water here. A little bit of salt. Or a lot of salt. It's just for the pavage to say a little bit of salt. But you actually want quite a lot of salt and your pasta cooking. What are they say? There should be a salty as the sea. I mean, maybe not quite that salty, but you do want to infuse that pasta with your lovely salty. You're lovely salted water. At least I can agree with the Italians on that point. Okay, I have pasta sheets here. These are dried egg pasta sheets. And they're not the instant type because of course you can get the instant type where you're laying the flat and they don't need cooking. These ones require cooking. You need to keep moving the pasta sheets around so they don't stick together. So get your tongs in there. Kind of like separate them as they cook. Move them around. You kind of need to really pay attention here. And then once they reach that identity kind of stage, you can pull them out and place them onto some baking paper. This makes sure that you don't get any sticking issues happening later on. And do that in layers. So place another baking sheet on top. Put more of your lasagna sheets out and keep going until they're all laid out. It doesn't matter if some of these split. We are going to roll them up so you won't get a tail. I'm just going to spread a little bit of my bolognese in the bottom of my baking dish. Everything here is cold. The bolognese is cold. My cheese sauce is cold. And that is so that I can easily assemble and spread everything. So now we get a little bit crafty. So take some scissors and just cut your lasagna sheets in half. And then smush over some of your cheese sauce. You don't have to be so like fine dining here. Just kind of smush it because you're going to roll it up anyway later on. And then this is where I'm going to show ice cream scoop comes in handy. Just a little bit of bolognese. Just one scoop on each sort of pasta sheet. Give that a spread as well. I will sometimes get Charlie to help me do this. Here are those things where everyone's like, oh, get the kids to help with this. Well, yeah, that's fine. But they always make a big mess. But Charlie is getting quite good now at doing these roll ups. So she's allowed to do some helping. So once you've got your lovely pinwheel situation here, so cute, I love that. I'm going to cut that in half again just because I think it's too tall for our dish here. It's going to make such a lovely pattern. And now you just keep going. I have to say this is a really satisfying process, particularly when you've got all your sheets laid out and nothing is sticking so it actually doesn't really take very much time. And I do find that you use less bolognese because I find that with leftover bolognese, I don't have quite enough to make a proper lasagna, but I do have enough to kind of make this special little treat. Now, if I have any leftover cheese sauce, I'm not going to waste that puppet into little crevices here. And now I have some more cheese. A bit of mozzarella, let's throw the top there. And I'm just going to bake this in a hot oven around about 200 Celsius until it's all golden and oozy. Ah, look at that. I just love how beautiful that is. And just from leftovers, I mean, so amazing. Look at that cheese. You still got that beautiful pattern. All right, now typically I would wait and just let this rest for a little bit, but I'm going to get a new, because I want to show you what it's all about in there. Ah, look at the cheese oozing. Ah, look at that. And you know it's really great. So with a typical lasagna, you only get sort of just like the one edge that runs around, the edge of the dish, but with this, you kind of got like a whole top layer of that curly, crispy pasta going on. So if you love the edge of lasagna like I do, you are going to love this one. Okay. There's one massive piece. I'm not a good bit excited. Now there's lots of this yummy kind of sauce at the bottom here. I'm just going to drizzle that around the side, drizzle of olive oil. And this is my finishing olive oil. So a really good extra virgin. This is a little sprinkle of salt and some basil leaves. And that my friends, I think, is a stunning way to use up leftover bolanes. Ah, it's cheesy. Ah, it's meaty. And that beautiful like egg lasagna is so delicious. The pasta I'm about to make is literally the one that blew up my internet world. So it's had six million views. It's been featured by Bon Appetit in the US. And it's one that I just love to make because it takes Italian techniques but fuses them with ingredients that speak to me. So we're revisiting it today, but I'm going to make the pasta from scratch, which I also love to do. So this is the way I have always made pasta at home. There are lots of different ways to make pasta, but I think it's all about ratios. It's about the flour and it's also about your rolling technique. So we're going to do all of that. But my ratio is very simple. I start off with a double zero flour. Now you probably have heard of double zero flour. It is a typically used for pasta or pizza if you are in Italy. It's a very fine powdery kind of flour. It has a high gluten content. It kind of makes your pasta really snappy. Got a lot of elasticity to the dough when you use this type of flour. But you know what? You can just use plain or purpose flour as well. So I go in here with 500 grams typically. And then I do one egg per 100 grams. There are lots of different ratios about where you just use egg yolk. You use a combination of egg and egg yolk. Oh, whoops, look at that. You don't want the shell though. That's what you don't want. But I always think I just like to use the whole egg because otherwise I have egg whites that I intend on using for marangs and all sorts of fancy things. And then I never do. So the whole egg for me. And then just start mixing this in. You'll see a lot of fancy chefs doing this straight on the bench top with the mound of flour. But I find the egg runs away from me. I'm not that coordinated. So I like to start this in a bowl. Now once you kind of get to this bitsy kind of stage, just pull your fork out. And now we can get everything onto the bench top. And this kind of starts smushing it together. I love this process. It kind of starts out looking like it's too dry. But it miraculously comes together in the end. So you want to keep working this dough. You can see it's starting to come together now. And the idea is that you shouldn't really have much flour left on your bench top. You're starting to sort of incorporate into that dough. Just looking good. I'm going to wrap this up and that dough needs at least 30 minutes to rest in the fridge. So I have my dough. It's beautifully rested. Now we're going to do the rolling. There's my dough. It's a lot stickier, a lot softer than the last time we saw it. And I like to get myself a nice mound of flour here. They're going to use as a roll it out. And then divide this dough up. See how beautiful and smooth that dough is on the inside there? I always like to keep my pasta dough covered. Because I think it can dry out. One piece of dough here, a little bit of flour. Pressing it out. So you're at the wider setting. Then you fold. Go back through same setting. And you just keep doing that. Like four, five times, six times. The kind of fancy name for this is Luminating. So if you were here with me, you would be able to feel the pasta starting to evolve. So it's becoming really smooth. It's almost got like a baby's bone kind of texture. So now that I've done my Luminating, I'm just going to fold it in half. I'm going to pass it through here. Go up to the next click. Run it through again. What I'm trying to do here is get a really nice uniform rectangular shape. So back up to number one. So I'm going to keep going now and just keep increasing the clicks. I'm just going to put a little bit of flour on here. You don't want too much flour, but I just want to make sure the pasta doesn't stick. Okay, so here we are with a very beautiful sheet of pasta. I like to let it dry a little first. So it's going to place it onto a chair here. Just lined with the tea towel and let that dry while I finish rolling. Alright, so we have our lovely sheets of pasta. It's so satisfying making this from scratch now. I'm going to take my sheet of pasta that's had its time to dry just a little bit. And here we go. That's our beddachini. Look at that. Now see how that has a really lovely, almost a little bit dried texture. That really is the key here. If your pasta is too wet when you roll it through here, it kind of all clumps together. So that's one of my key tips here. And you kind of want to spread it out a little in nice little clumps again. Just letting it dry out a little bit so that it doesn't sort of stick together. One of the amazing things about fresh pasta, like we've just made, is that you can keep the sauce really simple because then you've got the pasta really the star of the show. And I think my garlic butter pasta situation is the perfect thing for this. But today, I'm actually going to add some tomatoes. So the reason why I came up with the whole soy sauce, oyster sauce butter garlic situation in the first place, is that all those ingredients are about umami. So that like salty, savory kind of flavour. And that also applies to parmesan cheese. So it's all the same kind of vibe, if you know what I mean. And tomatoes, they also carry a lot of that umami, savory flavour when they're cooked, particularly in butter and olive oil and salt. You know what I mean? So I'm going to let you in on a little secret here, guys. And tomatoes love salt. And they particularly love salt when you pre-salt them. So it's almost like you brine the tomatoes before you actually use them. The sweetness comes out and you just get a much better flavour. So while you're waiting for the pan to heat up, it's all close to the tomatoes. I'm going to start off with some olive oil here and some butter, because this is garlic butter, the favourite pasta after all. Ooh, that sizzles so nice. Okay, let's throw my garlic straight in there, even while the butter is still melting. So don't want that garlic all the butter to burn. So add them in at once, a little chili powder. Ah, something about garlic when it hits the pan with butter and that oil. So good. Okay, tomatoes are going to go in here too. And I just want those tomatoes to kind of soften. I don't want them too, I don't know, cooked down and intense. I want to retain some of their freshness. So I'm just going to keep them spinning around in here a little longer. And so as someone who grew up in a half Asian household, my mum's time, my dad's Australian, and also my mum was living in a new western country when I was little. So she was just kind of finding her way with her own flavours in a new place. So things like pasta or like roast lamb or roast chicken or bolognese had kind of like a little bit of an Asian flavour. My mum would use soy sauce or fish sauce instead of salt. Mum's bar. Yeah, mum's bar. That's right. Really tasty. You know, she would add curry paste to her roast chicken. Just, you know, little things like that. And to me, those flavours kind of make sense, I guess. Some people would call it fusion. I just call it delicious. Now again, this is smelling amazing. And what's happening here is we've just got a whole lot of ingredients that are all about umami, savoury flavours. And they're all just making friends in here. Ah, that is so good. The soy sauce, the oyster sauce and the soy sauce, sets off the sweetness of the tomatoes. So yum. Alright, I'm going to turn that off. Because now I want to concentrate on my pasta. To cook the pasta, you need a pot of boiling water. Add in some salt. And then add your fresh pasta. Now, fresh pasta does not take long. Like two to three minutes maximum. And then use a cup to scoop out some of that pasta. Cooking liquid. Set that aside. And get that pasta straight into your pan. And now this is where the magic happens, my friends. I'm just going to pour a little bit of that pasta water in there. So we just mix and toss everything around. The sauce will emulsify around each of those pasta strands. And almost become creamy, but without the cream. You know what I mean? It's that silky texture that happens when fat and pasta water and pasta meat. Okay, so check out that pasta. Oh my goodness. Ah. Look at that. Ah, there's silky strands. Okay, so that is just looking so glorious. A little bit more olive oil. A little sprinkling of spring onion. And cheese. I like a lot of cheese, so I'm going in with a lot of cheese here. A little dash of some chili flakes on top. And that my friends is a new revisited version of my pasta that blew up my internet world. Ah, it's so good. The texture of that fresh pasta is amazing, but the flavor of the tomato and there's, you know, little ingredients like the soy sauce, the oyster sauce, it just tastes right. So good.